Bridge Deal Creator App – Project Design & Plan Introduction & Goals

This project aims to build a web application for creating custom bridge deals
and exporting them in Portable Bridge Notation (PBN) format. The primary goal is
to let users easily assemble 4 complete bridge hands (North, East, South, West)
by drag-and-drop of cards or via automatic deal generation. The app will ensure
exactly 52 unique cards are distributed into the four hands and then generate a
PBN file that can be used in an automatic dealing machine. By providing both
manual and automated deal construction, the tool will cater to users who want
fine control (dragging specific cards) as well as those who want quick, random
examples of common bridge scenarios. Key considerations include a clear, modern
UI with easily distinguishable card graphics, intuitive controls for fast card
assignment, and the ability to compile multiple deals into one PBN download. The
app will be built with the Eleventy (11ty) framework and deployed on Netlify,
using Netlify Functions for any required server-side tasks. No user login or
sensitive data is involved, and any future need for persistence (e.g. saving
deal sets) can be addressed with a service like Supabase.

Features & Requirements Overview

Drag-and-Drop Deal Construction: Users can manually drag any of the 52 playing
cards into one of four “bucket” areas labeled North, East, South, and West. This
visual approach mimics sorting cards onto a bridge table.

Automatic Hand Filling (By Shape): The app can auto-populate a hand with a
specified card distribution pattern (e.g. 4-4-4-1 shape). The user can choose a
hand (N/E/S/W) and a desired pattern (any combination summing to 13 cards), and
the app will randomly assign 13 cards fitting that suit distribution. For
example, selecting a 4-4-4-1 shape for North could randomly deal North 4 spades,
4 hearts, 4 diamonds, and 1 club. (Optionally, the user might specify which suit
should be the singleton; otherwise it can be chosen at random.)

Preset Bridge Scenarios (Auto-Generate Deals): Users can choose from predefined
scenario templates to generate deals that illustrate common bridge bidding
situations, with random variation each time. The scenarios include:

1NT Opening: One hand (by default North) is given a balanced distribution (e.g.
4-4-3-2, 4-3-3-3, or 5-3-3-2) with 15–17 high-card points bridgebum.com
bridgebum.com , simulating a strong 1NT opener. The other hands are filled with
the remaining cards randomly.

Weak 3 Opening: One hand is dealt a long 7-card suit and a weak point count
(typically < 10 HCP) to model a 3-level preempt 60secondbridge.com . For
instance, East might get 7 hearts and very few high cards, while the other cards
are dealt out randomly among the other hands.

Strong 2♣ Opening: One hand is given an extraordinarily strong hand – usually
22+ HCP or equivalent playing strength pi.math.cornell.edu – to illustrate a 2♣
opener. The remaining cards are dealt to the other three hands. This ensures the
chosen hand has either a very high point count or a long running suit that
justifies a 2♣ bid.

4th Suit Forcing Scenario: A deal where one partnership has no immediate fit and
enough values to force to game (responder with 11+ HCP) bridgewebs.com . For
example, North-South between them hold at least game-going points and have bid
three different suits; the remaining fourth suit is used as an artificial
forcing bid. The generator will ensure that after dealing, North and South’s
hands contain at least three suits of interest (so that a 4th-suit sequence is
plausible) and that responder’s hand is ~11+ HCP. (The exact distribution is
random, but the condition of no early fit and adequate strength is met to
simulate a 4th-suit forcing auction.)

Fully Random Deal: (In addition to the above scenarios) the user can opt to
simply fill all four hands randomly (13 cards each, all 52 cards used) with no
special constraints, to generate a random bridge deal. This is useful as a
starting point or for quick deal generation.

Multi-Deal Set Management: The user can create and compile multiple deals in one
session. For example, they might prepare 10 different deals (some manually
arranged, some via auto-generators) and export them together. The UI will allow
adding a new empty “board” or deal, switching between deals, and tracking the
deal count. When exporting, all deals will be included in one PBN file (each
deal as a separate record). This is important for preparing sets of boards for
teaching or play – the user should be able to specify the number of deals to
produce and keep track of their progress as they create each deal.

PBN File Output: With one click, the user can download a .pbn file containing
the deals. The PBN will list each deal in the proper format so that dealing
machines or bridge software can import it. Each deal entry will include the
dealer and the cards of all four hands in the standard notation
trickstercards.com trickstercards.com . If multiple deals are exported, the file
will contain multiple [Deal] entries (and can include Board numbers if needed
for clarity). For example, a single deal might be output as: [Deal "S:
AK75.843.92.QJ76 932.KQT.8765.AT5 QJ.T962.AKQT.K98 T864.AJ75.J43.432"] This
indicates South is the dealer (first hand given is South’s) and lists South’s
cards, West’s cards, North’s cards, and East’s cards in clockwise order
trickstercards.com . The cards within each hand are grouped by suit (spades,
hearts, diamonds, clubs) separated by . and shown by their rank letters (A, K,
Q, J, T, 9, ... 2) trickstercards.com . The software will ensure exactly 52
distinct cards are present across the four hands (a validation step to avoid any
duplication or omission) trickstercards.com . Users won’t need to manually type
anything in PBN – the file generation is automatic once the hands are set.

Card Design Customization: The application will include a selection of 52 card
SVG images for the deck, with the possibility for the user to choose between
different card designs or “skins.” All cards are high-resolution vector graphics
for clarity. Open-source card image sets (for example, the public-domain SVG
playing cards by Tek Eye, or other CC0-licensed decks) will be used so there are
no copyright issues tekeye.uk . The user might be able to switch themes (e.g. a
classic design vs. a modern minimalist design) via a dropdown, and the app will
simply swap the image assets accordingly.

User Interface Design

The UI will be web-based, responsive, and focused on clarity and ease of use.
Major UI elements and layout considerations:

Bridge Table Layout: The four hands (N, E, S, W) will be represented as four
distinct drop zones on the screen. To mimic a bridge table orientation, North
will be displayed at the top, South at the bottom, West on the left, and East on
the right (with labels “North”, “East”, etc. clearly indicated). Each hand’s
zone will likely be a box or container where card images can reside. It will
also show a card count (e.g. “13 cards” or “(empty)” when no cards) so the user
knows how many have been placed. When a hand has 13 cards, it might highlight or
show a checkmark to indicate that hand is complete. If a hand exceeds 13 (which
the app should normally prevent), an error highlight would appear. The overall
layout will be clean and uncluttered to align with the “modern, unfussy” design
requirement – mostly consisting of the card images and minimal text/buttons.

Card Deck Display: There will be an area showing all 52 cards available for
dealing. Initially, all cards start here (e.g. arranged in suit order or a
spread-out deck). This area could be a panel or a sortable list. Cards will
likely be displayed as face-up thumbnails (large enough to read easily). The
user can drag cards from this pool into any hand. Cards that have been placed
into a hand will be removed from the deck area (ensuring no duplicates in play).
If a card is dragged out of a hand back to the deck, it reappears in the deck
pool. The card images will be large and high-contrast so that suits and values
are easily distinguished at a glance (e.g., using red color for hearts/diamonds
and black for spades/clubs).

Card Appearance: Example of a high-contrast card design (Ace of Hearts). The app
will use SVG images for crisp rendering. Each card’s rank and suit symbol will
be clearly visible; face cards will have distinct artwork. Using vector graphics
means the cards can be scaled for different screen sizes without losing clarity.
The design will emphasize clear differentiation between cards – for instance,
suit symbols will be colored (traditionally red or black) and perhaps slightly
enlarged for visibility, and the indices (A, K, Q, etc.) will use a clean,
readable font. These card assets are available in the public domain, meaning
they can be freely used and modified tekeye.uk . Users will benefit from the
option to switch card designs if they prefer a different look (for example, a
more minimalist design with just big letters/numbers versus a traditional design
with ornate face cards). The card back design (if needed when cards are
face-down) can be something simple or also selectable, though for this
application all cards will likely be face-up during editing.

Drag & Drop Mechanics: Drag-and-drop will be intuitive: the user grabs a card
from the deck area (e.g., click and hold on the card image) and drags it over a
hand’s zone, then releases to drop. When a card is dragged, potential target
zones (the hand buckets) can highlight to show they are active drop targets. The
app will leverage the standard HTML5 Drag and Drop API for this interaction. We
will maintain the state of the dragged card and update the DOM on drop events.
(For example, when a card is dropped on North, the card’s element will be
appended to the North container and removed from its original container.) This
provides a natural, tactile feel to building a deal. It’s also possible to
implement dragging via a library for smoother handling of elements; however,
given the scope, the native API with some custom code should suffice. We’ll be
careful to handle edge cases: e.g., if a user drags a card and then presses
Escape or drops it outside any valid zone, the card should snap back to its
origin. Each hand container will refuse drops if it already has 13 cards (the
card would bounce back or trigger a message). Likewise, the deck area will
refuse drops of any card that’s already there (to avoid duplicates – effectively
each card can only exist in one place at a time).

Multiple Selection & Quick Assignment: To enhance usability, the UI will allow
selecting multiple cards and assigning them in one action (so that users don’t
have to drag 13 individual cards one by one if they don’t want to). One approach
is to include a “selection mode” or checkboxes on the card thumbnails. For
example, each card image could have a small checkbox overlay; the user can tick
several cards (they would highlight to indicate selection), then click a button
like “Assign selected to North.” Upon clicking, all selected cards move into the
North hand at once. This approach is more user-friendly than trying to drag
multiple items simultaneously using the standard API (which is tricky – HTML5
drag/drop by default only deals with one element, and extending it to multiple
requires custom data handling sitepoint.com ). The selection mechanism could
also be implemented with modifier keys (e.g., Ctrl+Click to select multiple
cards), but checkboxes or a dedicated select mode might be more obvious for a
broad range of users.

Automatic Distribution Controls: There will be a panel or menu for the
auto-generation features. This could be a sidebar or a modal that opens when the
user clicks “Auto-Deal” or a similar button. In this panel:

The user can choose a Scenario from a dropdown (like “1NT opener”, “Weak 3”,
etc.). After selecting a scenario, they can hit a “Generate” button which will
fill the hands according to that scenario’s rules (replacing any current cards
in those hands). We might allow the user to specify which player the scenario
should apply to (for instance, maybe they want East to be the 1NT opener instead
of North) – this could be another setting (e.g., a dropdown for “Scenario
applies to: [North/East/South/West]”). If not specified, we’ll use a sensible
default (North for these examples). We will also provide a brief description or
tooltip for each scenario, so the user can understand what will happen (e.g.,
“1NT Opening – gives one hand 15-17 HCP balanced, others random”). Additionally,
an option “Show scenario details/rules” can toggle a small info box that reminds
the user of the bridge theory: for example, “1NT (15-17) – A balanced hand with
15-17 high-card points (no singletons or voids) bridgebum.com .” This
educational blurb can be shown on demand.

The user can also choose a Custom Distribution mode. In this mode, they select a
specific hand (N/E/S/W) and enter a desired pattern (perhaps via four number
inputs for Spades/Hearts/Diamonds/Clubs count, or by picking from common
patterns). The UI will ensure the numbers sum to 13. There could be presets like
“4-4-4-1” or “6-3-2-2” etc., for convenience. Upon clicking “Fill Hand,” the
chosen hand is dealt a random selection of cards matching that pattern. The
remaining cards stay in the deck (or we could optionally auto-distribute the
rest randomly to the other hands if the user prefers a full deal immediately).
This feature addresses the user’s desire to quickly set a hand shape like
4-4-4-1 without manually picking each suit.

Repeat/Regenerate: For any scenario or distribution, the user should be able to
regenerate if they want a different random deal with the same criteria. A
“Regenerate” button can re-run the last selected scenario, yielding a new
variation. This encourages finding a deal that fits their needs (especially for
scenarios like 4th suit forcing which might need a specific configuration – they
can reroll until satisfied).

Controls for Multiple Deals: If multiple deals (boards) are being compiled, the
UI needs to allow navigating and editing them. A simple approach: a “Deal #”
selector or tabs. For example, a row of tabs labeled 1, 2, 3, ... for each deal;
clicking a tab shows that deal’s layout. Or a dropdown list if many deals. There
will also be an “Add Deal” button to create a new blank deal (with all 52 cards
back in the deck area). The user can delete a deal as well if needed (maybe a
small “×” on the tab or a remove button). We’ll ensure that each deal is saved
in memory so switching back and forth doesn’t lose the configuration. The number
of deals might also be limited by some reasonable number (for performance,
perhaps 100 deals max, but realistically even 20 deals is plenty for most uses
like lesson preparation).

Export/Download Interface: A prominent “Download PBN” button will be available
(perhaps in the top bar or at the bottom of the deal list). When clicked, the
app will compile the PBN text for all deals. If there are multiple deals, it
will include each one sequentially in the file. It may also add tags like [Board
"1"], [Board "2"], etc., before each deal so that the boards are numbered (this
can be helpful for the user’s reference, though some dealing machines may not
require explicit board tags). The generated file can be offered as a download to
the user’s computer (likely using a Blob or a generated link with the download
attribute, so it saves as a .pbn file). We will also ensure the PBN syntax is
correct: the deal strings follow the format "DealerLetter: Hand1 Hand2 Hand3
Hand4" in clockwise order and each hand’s cards are dot-separated by suits
trickstercards.com . By default, if the user hasn’t specified a dealer, we might
assume South deals (as is common – many dealing programs assume Dealer = South
if not stated trickstercards.com ) or we let the user set the dealer manually
(perhaps a small control to pick the dealer for each deal, defaulting to South
or the first hand filled). Each deal line will be enclosed in [Deal "..."] tags
as shown in the example. The app will include any other needed PBN header tags
minimally – perhaps just a [Generator] tag to identify our app, and maybe
[Event] or [Site] if we want to have a placeholder. But since the focus is on
the deal cards, those extra tags can be optional or left blank.

Visual Design and Clarity: Overall, the interface will favor a clean design: a
neutral background (perhaps a soft white or green felt texture for the table
area to hint at bridge tables, but nothing too busy), clearly labeled sections,
and buttons with straightforward text. We will avoid clutter – for instance,
scenario options might be hidden under an expandable menu rather than all shown
at once, so as not to overwhelm the main screen. Typography will be chosen for
readability (for labels like North, East, etc., and any instructions). The card
images themselves provide a lot of the visual interest, so the surrounding UI
can be minimalist. We’ll ensure that there is sufficient contrast (important for
accessibility too) – e.g., text is dark on light background, or vice versa, and
that color is used meaningfully (e.g., maybe use suit symbols as icons next to
hand labels or for decoration). Because the user explicitly requested “clear
differentiation”, we’ll double-check that even in a quick glance, one can tell
the cards apart (different suits and values are easily seen, and each hand’s
area is distinct). For example, we might give each hand’s area a subtle colored
outline or background tint (not too strong, but enough to distinguish North’s
zone from East’s zone, etc.).

Help and Feedback: If possible, we’ll incorporate small help touches, such as
tooltips or a short help section. For instance, hovering over the Download
button could show “Export all deals as a .pbn file (Portable Bridge Notation)
for use in dealing machines or Bridge software.” If the user tries to download
but a deal is incomplete (not all 52 cards placed), the app should alert them
(e.g., “Deal 3 is incomplete – please assign all 52 cards before exporting.”).
Similarly, if they try to select more than 13 cards for one hand’s auto-fill, it
should prevent that. By providing immediate feedback (highlight missing cards,
counts, etc.), the user will know what needs to be done, reducing confusion.

Technical Implementation

Tech Stack Summary: We will use Eleventy (11ty) as the static site generator to
build the base HTML, CSS, and JS of the app. The app itself will largely run
client-side (in the user’s browser) for responsiveness. Deployment will be on
Netlify, which provides easy hosting for static sites and optional serverless
functions for any dynamic needs. The choice of 11ty/Netlify aligns with the
user’s request and allows us to write in a modern workflow (with templating,
asset bundling if needed, and continuous deployment).

Eleventy Integration: Eleventy will help organize the project’s code and
content. We can create an Eleventy template for the main app page that includes
the layout (the four hand containers, the deck area, etc.). Eleventy can also
process any static data – for example, we might have a JSON or YAML file listing
all 52 cards (with properties like suit, rank, and the image file path). That
data file can be used by Eleventy to generate the HTML for the deck of cards
(creating an <img> element for each card with the appropriate SVG source). Using
Eleventy means at build-time we can easily generate repetitive markup (like 52
card elements) and ensure all image links are correct, rather than coding that
by hand. We can also use Eleventy’s templating for the scenario list: define the
scenarios in a data file and loop over them to create the dropdown options and
descriptions. This makes the project maintainable and the content easy to adjust
without digging into JS. The Eleventy output will be a static site (HTML/JS/CSS)
that can be deployed to Netlify’s CDN.

Styling: We’ll use modern CSS (potentially with a preprocessor or just vanilla
CSS, possibly TailwindCSS for rapid styling if desired). The design will be
responsive – likely using a flexbox or grid layout to position the four hand
zones and the deck. We want the interface to work on various screen sizes
(though on a very small screen like a phone, drag-and-drop 52 cards might be
challenging, so it’s primarily aimed at desktop/laptop or tablet use). However,
we can make sure the layout adapts (e.g., on smaller screens, maybe we stack the
hand containers differently or allow scrolling). Clean CSS will also be
important for the unfussy look; we’ll avoid heavy shadows or gaudy colors.
Instead, use simple borders, spacing, and maybe slight hover effects to indicate
interactive elements.

Client-Side JavaScript: The core interactive logic will be written in
JavaScript. This includes:

Handling drag-and-drop events: attaching dragstart, dragover, drop, etc., to
card elements and hand containers. For example, on dragstart we store the card’s
ID or some identifier in the dataTransfer, and on drop we determine which
container was the target and update the DOM accordingly. We will likely maintain
an internal representation of each hand’s contents (maybe as an array of card
IDs for North, etc.) that gets updated as well, so we know what cards are where.

Implementing the multi-select: If using checkboxes, then a simple JS function
can gather all checked cards and move them to the selected hand container. If
using a keyboard modifier, we’d maintain a list of selected card elements and
allow a special drag of the group (though the latter is more complex to make it
visually move as a group, so the checkbox + button approach is preferred for
simplicity).

Scenario generation logic: For each scenario, we will write a function that can
create a deal. For instance, generate1NTDeal(dealerSeat) might pick a random
balanced 15-17 HCP hand for the designated dealer seat, then generate random
hands for the others with the remaining cards. We’ll need a routine to calculate
HCP (Ace=4, King=3, etc.) and to test distribution shapes. This might involve a
loop or even brute force trial for the 1NT hand: e.g., randomly pick 13 cards
until one meets the criteria, or more systematically, generate a random balanced
shape and then random high cards until 15-17 points are achieved. Given 52
cards, a simple approach is to shuffle the deck and then check the first 13 for
criteria – if not, reshuffle and try again. Since the deck is small, this is
fast enough. Other scenarios: the Weak 3 generator will ensure one hand has
exactly 7 cards in one suit and <= 10 HCP. We can do this by first selecting a
suit and 7 random cards from that suit (ensuring at most one honor or so to keep
HCP low), then filling that hand with 6 random others from the remaining suits
(ensuring total HCP still low). Or similarly, generate random hand and check
criteria. The 2♣ scenario function will likely ensure one hand’s HCP >= 22. That
could be done by dealing random cards until one hand crosses 22, or by
intentionally placing most high cards in one hand. The 4th suit forcing scenario
is more complex; our approach can be: ensure North and South have no fit (so at
most 3 cards in common suit between them) and each have 11+ points. A simple
method: deal out a random deal, then check if NS have a combined 25+ points and
that they didn’t stop in 3 bids (like each has at least two suits to bid). If
not, reshuffle or adjust. We might refine this logic over time, but at least we
enforce the point count and lack of immediate fit (e.g., avoid giving them a 5-3
fit in a major off the bat, which would circumvent a 4SF sequence). Because
these scenario generators involve some randomness, using a reproducible seed or
just the default Math.random is fine. Each generation is random each time as
required, so users get a fresh deal whenever they click generate.

Data Structures: We’ll represent cards likely as strings or objects. For
example, "AS" for Ace of Spades, "H10" for Ten of Hearts, etc. We may map them
to image file names (which might be like spades_A.svg or 10_of_hearts.svg
depending on the image naming). We’ll maintain a list/array of all 52 card
identifiers. When generating or dragging, we’ll remove a card from one list and
add to another. This internal model helps with ensuring no duplicates – e.g., we
can have a set of “remaining cards in deck”. Alternatively, we update each
card’s state as belonging to a certain hand or deck. This can be stored in a
simple object structure like:

deal = { N: [], E: [], S: [], W: [], deck: [ 'AS','KS', ... '2C' ] // cards
still unassigned };

And as cards are assigned, move them from deck to the respective array. This
structure is also what we’ll use to generate the PBN string.

PBN Generation: A JavaScript function will take a deal object as above and
produce a string. According to the PBN standard, the deal tag format is:
"<dealer>: <hand1> <hand2> <hand3> <hand4>" with hands in clockwise order
starting from the dealer trickstercards.com . So we need to order the hands
correctly based on who the dealer is. If we default dealer = South (for
instance), then hand1 = South, hand2 = West, hand3 = North, hand4 = East (that’s
clockwise from South). If dealer = North, then hand1 = North, hand2 = East,
hand3 = South, hand4 = West, etc. We’ll have a mapping for that order. Then for
each hand, we need the cards sorted by suit in the order Spades, Hearts,
Diamonds, Clubs trickstercards.com . Within each suit, we can sort by rank
(A,K,Q,J,T,...). We’ll format something like "AK75.843.92.QJ76" for a hand (that
means Spades AK75, Hearts 843, Diamonds 92, Clubs QJ76 for that hand). If a suit
is completely missing in that hand, we’ll put nothing between the dots for that
suit (e.g. if no cards in a suit, just skip ranks for that suit)
trickstercards.com . After constructing the deal string, we’ll wrap it as [Deal
"N: ..."] for example, and include any other tags. For multiple deals, we’ll
join them with newlines.

We might also include a [Board "n"] tag before each [Deal] if the dealing
machine expects it (many PBN readers infer board number from order, but adding
is harmless). This can be simply the index in the array + 1.

Another optional tag is [Vulnerable ...] if needed, but since vulnerability
isn’t specified by the user and doesn’t affect the dealing machine’s dealing of
cards, we might leave it as “None” or omit entirely.

A [Dealer "..."] tag is redundant if we specify dealer in the deal string, so we
won’t need a separate tag for that.

Netlify Functions Usage: For the initial implementation, Netlify Functions may
not be strictly necessary since all logic (deal generation and file creation)
can happen in the browser. However, we will set up the project to be ready for
serverless functions in case we want to move some logic server-side. One
possible use of a Netlify function is to generate and return the PBN file data.
For example, instead of generating the file in the browser, the app could send
the deal data to a Netlify function endpoint, which then responds with the PBN
file content and proper headers to trigger a download. This could be beneficial
if we want to offload processing or ensure the file format is 100% correct on
the server side. Another use-case is if in the future we integrate a database
(like Supabase) for saving deal sets or user profiles; a Netlify function would
securely interact with Supabase (hiding any service keys) to save or load deals.
Given that no user login or sensitive info is involved right now, we can
implement everything client-side, but we will keep the architecture open to
adding functions.

Additionally, Eleventy has support for serverless templates (Eleventy
Serverless) and can work with Netlify if we needed to do something like
on-demand generation. But in our case, the content is highly interactive, so a
pure client-side approach is simpler.

Development Workflow: We will organize the code roughly as follows:

Eleventy templates (Nunjucks or Liquid templates) for HTML structure (e.g.,
index.njk as main page).

A folder of static assets: cards/ containing the SVG/PNG card images (possibly
in subfolders per design).

A main CSS file (possibly generated via a preprocessor or just managed in the
repository).

A main JavaScript file (or multiple modules) that gets included in the page. We
can either use a bundler (like a simple webpack config or ESBuild) if needed to
manage modules, or just load a single script. The script will initialize event
listeners for drag/drop, handle the UI interactions (buttons for auto-deal,
etc.), and manage the state (the deal object).

We will thoroughly test the drag-and-drop across modern browsers (Chrome,
Firefox, Safari, Edge) to make sure it behaves consistently. Using pointer
events for touch might be needed if we want to support tablet drag-drop (this
can be a later enhancement; HTML5 drag/drop is not great on touch screens by
default).

The project will be version-controlled (e.g., on GitHub) for easy deployment to
Netlify (Netlify will auto-deploy from the repo). We’ll also set up basic CI if
needed to run Eleventy build and maybe a linter for JS to catch errors.

Validity and Testing: After implementing, we will create some sample deals and
download the PBN. We’ll test this PBN file by importing it into a known program
(if available) or by using a PBN parsing library to ensure it’s correct. The PBN
spec from Tistis (version 2.1) will be our reference to ensure compliance
trickstercards.com trickstercards.com . Because the output is simple text, it’s
straightforward to verify manually too. The app should also guide the user to
avoid mistakes: for example, preventing export if a hand doesn’t have 13 cards
(or if total cards != 52). If any such condition occurs, a clear message or
indicator will be shown.

Future Enhancements: While outside the initial scope, it’s worth noting possible
future improvements that this foundation would support:

Deal Library: Users could save deals or label them (requires backend). Using
Supabase (Postgres) via its JavaScript client could store deals and even allow
sharing deals with others.

Authentication: Not needed now, but if we allow personal libraries of deals,
adding GitHub/Google OAuth via Netlify Identity could be an approach.

UI Enhancements: e.g., a deal editor where users can input a PBN string to
preload a deal, or an undo/redo for moves.

Bridge Analysis Features: showing high-card point count for each hand as cards
are added, or checking that the scenario conditions are met (like an alert if
the 1NT hand we generated ended up with 18 HCP by accident, etc., though our
generation will try to avoid that).

Accessibility: We will make sure to add ARIA labels to drag targets (like
role="application" and ARIA drag-drop properties) and maybe allow an alternative
control scheme (like arrow keys to move a focused card to a different hand) for
users who cannot use a mouse. This would follow best practices for accessible
drag-and-drop, ensuring keyboard users or screen readers can still assign cards
(though this is an advanced consideration, we keep it in mind from the start).
According to accessibility articles, providing a selectable list and explicit
“Move to North” buttons as we do is one way to achieve a keyboard-accessible
interface for this sitepoint.com sitepoint.com .

With this design and plan in place, the next step is to start implementing the
UI structure and then adding the interactive functionality. We have prioritized
clarity and user empowerment (the user can manually customize or use smart fills
as they prefer). The Eleventy/Netlify setup will ensure the app is easily
deployable and maintainable, while the use of open-source assets and standard
formats (PBN) ensures compatibility and no licensing issues. This document
provides the blueprint for development – from UI layout to functional logic – so
the coding can proceed with a clear roadmap. Each feature can be built and
tested incrementally (for example, first get drag-and-drop working for one hand,
then extend to all four, then implement one scenario generator, etc.). By
following this plan, we will create a robust and user-friendly Bridge PBN Deal
Creator application that meets the requirements and provides a solid foundation
for future enhancements.
